                      -= Watchwords - History =-

History of the freeware Watchwords programs

Contents:

The Beginning                         
Clarification of license matters      
A Variety of Watchwords Programs      
Translations into foreign languages   
Watchwords in the Internet            
What's going on?                      

---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Beginning

How did the Watchwords texts come to be displayed on so many computer
screens, featuring so many platforms?

1988 I (Reinhold Willnat) had the desire to be greeted by the
Watchwords for the day before I would begin with my work. Since I do
not possess any programming skills, I discussed this matter with my
son-in-law, who, at that time was taking a "computer course". He very
much welcomed this task as a helpful exercise for his course. Thus,
the first DOS- program was completed in 1988. I have personally copied
the actual Watchwords texts from the booklet issued by the Moravian
Church.

Late during the summer of 1988, I already began to copy the texts for
the following year, once again. During that exercise I came upon a
note in the booklet regarding copyright matters. I addressed the
Directors of the Moravian Church, requesting permission to copy the
Watchwords texts. In January 1989 I received permission to copy the
Scripture texts of the Watchwords for each day onto diskette for
personal use only. The word "Losung" is protected by copyright, as
well as the combination of the scriptural texts for each day, and the
devotional commentary for each day (as far as 70 years back).

1989 Many of the daily Scripture texts became a great source of
blessing to me because of the effect of repeated reading during the
course of the day. I also distributed the program to my brothers
(members of my family) and to some friends. In autumn 1989 I renamed
the DOS program "LOSUNG" to "LESUNG" (Note: in German this is a clever
deviation from the protected word "Losung" and yet, in the end, it
means, to some degree, the same: "Losung" - "Watchwords"; "Lesung" -
"Reading"). I did not copy the (protected) devotional commentary for
each text, and passed the disk only to people that had bought the
booklet, too.

It was to be expected: after some time I received kind letters from
people I did not even know. An increasing number of individuals (even
a number from abroad) asked me to continue and to prepare the
Watchwords texts for the following year! The letters were often
heart-warming.

Until end of 1992 a solid structure developed with regard to
distribution of the Watchwords diskette. I shipped the completed
program diskettes to the listed "main distributors", who, in turn,
made copies of the diskettes for further distribution. During that
time, LifeNet came to play an important role. A considerable portion
of the distributed Watchwords programs found their way to many
churches, and further to many computer users via connected mailboxes
(bulletin boards). The attached file "INFO.TXT" informed users about
the program. I regularly informed the Moravian Church of all my
activities.

Clarification of license matters

In autumn 1992, I submitted my request once again in a two-page letter
to the Moravian Church. I was informed that, because of considerable
in-house reorganization, my request had not yet been considered. With
a change in leadership, changes were also made with reference to
responsibilities for (formerly) East and West Germany.

After various contacts in 1993 and 1994 with the joint publishers
Friedrich Reinhardt Verlag (Publisher) and Haenssler Verlag
(Publisher), Mr. Ruedi Reinhardt granted permission to distribute the
Watchwords texts for 1995 in the format used thus far. One condition:
the program name "Lesung" had to be changed back to "Losung". No
permission could be granted at that time for 1996, since the
publishers were planning on issuing their own Watchwords diskette for
that year. 

What joy and what gratitude toward the Lord gripped my heart at that
time! After approximately 7 years, 1995 would, for the first time,
feature a licensed Watchwords diskette. For years now I had, time and
again, declared the Watchwords on diskette to be the "business of the
Chief Executive", and now the great God had made it clear, that He
stands behind His Word, and that He wants this diskette distribution!

I published this good news via the mailboxes (bulletin boards) on that
same day, and, on the following day, I received many encouraging
e-mails, which again and again expressed deep gratitude to the Lord.
That was a great day of joy!

After a short time, Mr. Markus Hé‰nssler granted a license for
1995 and 1996 with conditions still in force today. This license was
renewed several times for two years. In May 1999, the Moravian Church
extended the license under the same conditions until the end of 2003,
and gave me permission to offer watchwords texts of past years for
free download. - As always, the future is in the hands of God! After
all, this is the "business of the Chief Executive"!

Since July 2002, Friedrich Reinhardt-Verlag is the sole publisher of
the German watchwords, since HÅ‰nssler-Verlag is no longer
partner of the joint publishers. In agreement with the Moravian
Church, Friedrich Reinhardt-Verlag extends the license until the
watchwords of 2004.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

A Variety of Watchwords Programs

Besides the coming up of the distribution structure and the
clarification of the license matters, there was, however, a completely
different development:

As I already mentioned, I do not possess any programming skills. I
depend on what others are willing to do for me. I was being asked by a
number of individuals about the Watchwords program for other
platforms. "Unfortunately, not yet..." was my answer.

Then, in short succession, I received offers from individuals, willing
to create the following programs:

  * Mr. Andreas Pollack offered a high quality DOS-program, which,
    at the same time, could play melodies of familiar German church
    hymns.
    
  * immediately following, Mr. AndrÈ Wendlandt offered to write a
    Windows program
    
  * These were followed by offers to create programs for OS/2,
    Atari, Psion, PalmPilot, for individual homepages, and for Linux.
    
All I could do, was looking up in utter amazement to our great God.
Seeing, that this was Godís work, to which people were willing to
commit themselves, filled me with deep gratitude!

---------------------------------------------------------------------

Translations into foreign languages

1995 In 1995 a total stranger called me from the United States. All he
wanted to do was to say "Thank You" for the Watchwords program he had
received from one of his friends in Germany. After a brief exchange of
ideas, followed by e-mail correspondence, he eventually offered to
translate the attached files into English, and to incorporate English
Scripture texts into the Watchwords program (the text is the same for
all platforms: ASCII). Thus, in 1996, the Watchwords diskette appeared
for the first time in German and English. How my heart rejoiced, when
I packaged and shipped the first diskettes! My prayers went with them
on their way. Ever since, Roland Freischlad has been a faithful and
committed fellow laborer.

The Lord has greatly blessed the selfless work of all those involved.
Many letters from Germany and abroad bear this out!

1998 is the year in which I received offers for translation into
Dutch, Spanish, and French. I gratefully accepted!

Since 2000, there is a version for Chinese, as well as versions for
several European languages and Vietnamese. Versions for Russian and
Afrikaans followed. As of 2001, Norwegian and Arabic are in
preparation.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

Watchwords in the Internet

This "stormy" development has by far exceeded the means of
distribution on diskette. It was, therefore, only logical, to transfer
the distribution of the Watchwords to a broader basis. I was
especially glad to see that this need had been known to the Lord long
before I was aware of it. HE had already made preparations to remedy
the situation, by moving Mr. Helmut Steeb (a specialist in Information
Technology) to offer his help and support to me!

When I looked at the very structured suggestions for improvement in
the distribution of the Watchwords programs, I was very glad about the
new ideas to which I was introduced. I noticed that the distribution
structure I had followed thus far, would have led very soon to a
dead-end, making handling of the work ultimately an impossibility!
Ever since, Helmut Steeb is largely responsible for organizational
matters.

Several individuals, meanwhile, have offered the Watchwords programs
on their homepages, as well as the "christliche internet dienst" (cid;
"Christian Information Service", a German web provider), and the
"Christliche Internet Agentur" (CINA; "Christian Internet Agency",
another German web provider). In 1999, the Haenssler Verlag
established the domain "Losungen.de", with a selection of the freeware
Watchwords programs.

By the end of 1998 it became clear to me, that the Internet, too,
ought to be used more intensely for the Lord. A brief exchange within
my inner circle of friends resulted in support of this idea, and our
own domain losung.de was established. This domain, in a way, is the
"mother" of the freeware Watchwords programs. It furthers ministry to
the public. Many like to pay a visit to this web page. All new
features and additions of the Watchwords programs are published there
and can be downloaded by those interested. Additional information and
a guest book complete the content.

Each main distributor is informed via e-mail concerning new features,
after which download of the appropriate files from the internet pages
is suggested. With that, the speed of the flow of information
significantly increases, and the cost of postage and diskettes is
reduced considerably.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

What's going on

In the meantime, the offer of the freeware Watchwords programs has
become very large, and it steadily increases. I myself can look at
these ideas only in astonishment, rejoice greatly in them, and give
thanks to the Lord for making so many gifted people willing to commit
themselves to this task, in spite of their own heavy work load.

It is unavoidable, that in this greatly increased activity of
distributing the Word of God, costs are mounting. But, this too, is
the Lordís concern. Time and again, He makes individuals willing,
to contribute to offset the costs of this ministry.

With extra funds from the Watchwords charitable contribution account,
I was able to support the Computermission ("Computer Missions
Organization", http://www.computermission.org) in Sinsheim-Reihen,
Germany, as well as LifeNet (a Christian web page in Germany). Both
organizations have as their main goal to reach people with the living
Word of God by means of these new media. Thus far, all of us who have
responded to the call of God to distribute His Word, notwithstanding
our toilsome efforts, have experienced many blessings from God. Time
and again, we enjoy reading the many letters that come to us, telling
us how God blesses. 

With your contribution you enable, for example, the "Computermission"
("Computer Missions Organization"), to reach many individuals at a
number of trade shows with the vitally important Word of God, in that
diskettes and CDs are being distributed free of charge. Those in
charge at LifeNet allow their infrastructure to be used for this
ministry and take part without pay in various trade show campaigns

  The time of harvest is here. Who will help through prayer and
  through giving? 

ENhistory.htm,v 1.9 2002/08/07 19:05:18 
---------------------------------------------------------------------
