                -= Watchwords - license agreements =-

License agreements 

Watchwords bible text selection 
  The freeware watchwords programs use the watchwords i.e. the special
  selection of Old and New Testament texts, with kind permission of
  the "Evangelische Brüder-Unität" (another name for the
  Moravian Church), Herrnhut and Bad Boll (Germany;
  http://www.ebu.de), and "Friedrich Reinhardt Verlag"
  (http://www.reinhardt.ch). 
Accompanying texts, bible readings 
  The permission allows usage of the bible readings given in the
  watchwords booklet, but forbids usage of the accompanying texts
  (song verses or prayers). 
Form of distribution 
  You may distribute the content of the program package only in
  unmodified form. You must not remove, modify, or pass along any
  files separately. Especially, distribution of the watchwords texts
  of the current year without their respective display programs is not
  permitted. You must not alter the content of the texts. Watchwords
  texts of previous years may be distributed without the display
  programs. 
Non-commercial 
  The programs may only be distributed free of charge. Commercial
  advertisement, distribution for profit, and distribution through
  commercial companies is prohibited. 
German "Losung" 
  The German word "Losung" in connection with these programs is
  protected by copyright. The German watchwords may be used
  exclusively by the name "Losung". 
Text usage in programs 
  You must use or incorporate the watchwords texts in any software
  program only if the sole function of the program is to display the
  watchwords text on the screen. A widespread general purpose program
  (e.g. an Internet browser or a database engine) may also be used.
  The watchwords texts must not be used to enrich the functionality of
  an application program (e.g. an organizer program). 
Bible text copyright 
  For any of the languages supported by the freeware watchwords
  programs, the above stated permission to use the watchwords (i.e.
  the special selection of bible verses) may but need not include
  permission by the respective bible society to use the bible text
  (edition, translation) it contains. Copyright notices for the bible
  editions may be found in the respective watchwords texts or in an
  additional text, they must be available for any user. 
Copyright for the freeware watchwords programs 
  The programs themselves are copyrighted (German "Urheberrecht") for
  the benefit of their program authors, see the license conditions in
  the respective program. 
Availability of license agreements 
  The license agreements must be availabe for the user. 
Copyright Information regarding the English Bible Texts 
  The Text of the "AUTHORIZED VERSION" (popularly known as the "King
    James Version") is in the Public Domain. 
  
    The NEW INTERNATIONAL VERSION (often abbreviated as "NIV")
    "Scripture taken from the HOLY BIBLE, NEW INTERNATIONAL VERSION
    (R)
    Copyright (C) 1973, 1978, 1984
    by International Bible Society.
    Used by permission of Zondervan Publishing House.
    All rights reserved."

    The NEW AMERICAN STANDARD BIBLE - update (R) (often abbreviated as
    NASB-up) 
    "Scripture taken from the NEW AMERICAN STANDARD BIBLE - update
    (R),
    (C) Copyright The Lockman Foundation
    1960, 1962, 1963, 1968, 1971, 1972, 1973, 1975, 1977, 1995
    Used by permission"
    
  NOTE: The NEW AMERICAN STANDARD BIBLE - update (R) text is the
  version normally offered to English-speaking users. NIV and KJV upon
  request from Roland Freischlad (see www.losung.de). 

In agreement with the licensee, an appeal for donations for the
benefit of the "Brüder-Unität" (another name for the Moravian
Church -literally: "Brethren Unity"-) and its missionary activities in
Germany and abroad is made. Please send your donations to: 
Ev. Kreditgenossenschaft e.G., Stuttgart, 
Account Number: 41 59 28 "Losungsspende" (the account identifier) 
Bank Routing Number: 600 606 06 

This ministry is hereby recommended to you for special consideration. 

Be thankful in all circumstances and give glory to our God! 

Sincerely, 

                           Reinhold Willnat

ENlicense.htm,v 1.23 2002/08/07 19:05:18 
---------------------------------------------------------------------
